You ready to start controlling your mental, physical and legal boundaries?
Let's start with figuring out where your mental and physical boundaries lie.
Try this exercise.
Picture yourself facing a man coming at you with a knife.
You know without a doubt that that person intends to stab you with that knife until you die, either
through their words or through other demonstrated intent.
Either way, you have a real and immediate fear for your life.
Now, imagine you have a knife of your own.
Or better yet, a gun, do you shoot your attacker knowing you are likely dead if you don't?
Let's say from a legal perspective, you are within your rights to do so.
But are you able to do your morals and ethics?
Allow it?
Now, imagine that your attacker is an elderly man.
Do you still shoot?
What if it's a woman, a pregnant woman, a child?
I realize this is kind of a -- up exercise, but it can be incredibly helpful for your mental preparation
and your personal understanding.
It's always good to know how far is too far for you.
Now, with these personal boundaries in mind, let's move on to how you set and enforce those boundaries.
First, let's find your ideal ready stance.
Stand up wherever you're watching this video and stand with your feet hip width apart.
Now, step back with one foot.
Which side did you naturally step back with?
This will probably be your dominant side, but go with what feels most comfortable.
This is your natural stance.
Don't fight it.
Next, raise up your arms, elbows bent at your sides with your hands up and palms flashing forward.
If you feel it necessary, you can have a weapon ready in one hand as well.
But if you don't feel it necessary yet, or don't want to escalate the situation by pulling it out,
this is still a good time to make sure you have that weapon.
Whatever it is, tucked away somewhere close by and quickly reachable like in your pocket.
So give that a try now, get your weapon of choice, be it a simple key or keychain a pen or tactical
pen, an umbrella or baton, a knife, pepper spray, taser or even a handgun, whatever you're willing
to buy, or if you already own or any other object around you in your daily routine that could potentially
become a weapon in your hand.
Practice getting into your body stance with the weapon ready, both tucked away and in your hand.
You want to stay in this position for as long as you feel necessary or as long as the threat is there
facing the threat in this 45 degree angle for the best visibility and mobility.
Now in this position, you're going to shift as your assailant or potential threat moves tracking them
so you always stay facing them in this ready position.
If the threat remains or gets worse after you get into your ready stance, then the next step is your
loud verbal warning.
Make sure it's strong, decisive and clear.
Leave no room for misinterpreting what you mean.
So find a place where you can safely go without causing a panic.
And let's give a few a try.
How about a warning like stop or go away or leave me alone?
Maybe a call for help.
Help.
I'm being attacked.
Or try loudly yelling a description of the threat in front of you, like the man in the blue shirt is
attacking me.
Or perhaps you'd prefer to keep it simple with just no.
Try it repeatedly.
No, no, no.
If the threat doesn't feel serious enough yet to warrant something that extreme, you can still give
a verbal warning try something a little less intense but still clear, like, sorry, I can't help you.
Remember, this verbal yell is meant to help you set and enforce your boundaries.
Give a warning.
Try to de-escalate the situation.
Alert bystanders.
Give yourself a boost of confidence and remind your body to breathe to fight off the phrase you are
breathing right?
It has many benefits, and it rarely hurts more than it helps.
So don't be afraid to use it if you need to.
Also, don't worry about being nice.
I know it will feel uncomfortable to break from.
What you've been taught is polite, but it is far better to be rude than be injured or dead.
Your homework assignment this week is to continue practicing, setting and enforcing these boundaries
with your ready stance, your palm flashing, your tracking footwork, your weapons at the ready and
your verbal warning both on your own and with as many encounters as you feasibly can this week.
Well, what are you waiting for?
Oh, if you go.